so a few years ago I was at JFK Airport
about to get on a flight when I was
approached by two women who I do not
think would be insulted to hear
themselves described as tiny old
tough-talking italian-american broads
the the taller one was like up here
comes she comes marching up to me and
she goes honey I got to ask you
something
you got something to do with that whole
Eat Pray Love thing that's been going on
lately and I said yes I did and she
smacks her friend and she goes see I
told you I said that's that girl that's
that girl who wrote that book based on
that movie so that's who I am
and believe me I'm extremely grateful to
be that person because that whole Eat
Pray Love thing was a huge break for me
but it also left me in a really tricky
position moving forward as an author
trying to figure out how in the world I
was ever going to write a book again
that would ever please anybody because I
knew well in advance that all of those
people who had adored Eat Pray Love
we're going to be incredibly
disappointed in whatever I wrote next
because it wasn't going to be Eat Pray
Love and all of those people who had
hated eat Pray Love we're going to be
incredibly disappointed in whatever I
wrote next because it would provide
evidence that I still lived so I knew
that I had no way to win and I and
knowing that I had no way to win made me
seriously consider for a while just
quitting the game and and moving to the
country to raise corgis but if I had
done that if I had given up writing I
would have lost my beloved vocation so I
knew that the task was that I had to
find some way to gin up the inspiration
to write the next book regardless of its
inevitable negative outcome in other
words I had to find a way to make sure
that my creativity survived its own
success and I did in the end find that
inspiration but I found it in the most
unlikely and unexpected place I found it
in lessons that I had learned earlier in
life about how creativity can survive
its own failure so just to back up and
explain the only thing I have ever
wanted to be for my whole life was a
writer
I wrote all through childhood all
through adolescence by the time I was a
teenager I was sending my very bad
stories to The New Yorker hoping to be
discovered after college I got a job as
a diner waitress kept working kept
writing kept trying really hard to get
published and failing at it I failed at
getting published for almost six years
so for almost six years every single day
I had nothing but rejection letters
waiting for me in my mailbox and it was
devastating every single time in every
single time I had to ask myself if I
should just quit while I was behind and
give up and spare myself this pain but
then I would find my resolve and always
in the same way by saying I'm not going
to quit I'm going home you have to
understand that for me going home did
not mean returning to my family's farm
for me going home meant returning to the
work of writing because writing was my
home because I loved writing more than I
hated failing at writing which is to say
that I loved writing more than I loved
my own ego which is ultimately to say
myself and that's how I pushed through
it but the weird thing is that 20 years
later during the crazy write of Eat Pray
Love I found myself identifying all over
again with that unpublished young diner
waitress who I used to be thinking about
her constantly and feeling like I was
her again which made no rational sense
whatsoever because our lives could not
have been more different she had failed
constantly I had succeeded beyond my
wildest expectation we had nothing in
common why did I suddenly feel like I
was her all over again and it was only
when I was trying to unthread that that
I finally began to comprehend the
strange and unlikely psychological
connection in our lives between the way
we experienced great failure and the way
we experienced great success so think of
it like this for most of your life you
live out your existence here in the
middle of the chain of human experience
where everything is normal and
reassuring and regular but failure
catapults you abruptly way out over here
into the blinding darkness of
disappointment success catapults you
just as abruptly but just as far way out
over here into the equally blinding
glare of Fame and recognition and praise
one of these fates is objectively seen
by the world as bad
the other one is objectively seen by the
world is good but your subconscious is
completely incapable of discerning the
difference between bad and
good the only thing that it is capable
of feeling is the absolute value of this
emotional equation the exact distance
that you have been flung from yourself
and there's a real equal danger in both
cases of getting lost out there in the
hinterlands of the psyche but in both
cases it turns out that there is also
the same remedy for self restoration and
that is that you have got to find your
way back home again as swiftly and
smoothly as you can
and if you're wondering what your home
is here's a hint your home is whatever
in this world you love more than you
love yourself so that might be
creativity might be family might be
invention adventure faith service might
be raising corgis I don't know your home
is that thing to which you can dedicate
your energies with such singular
devotion that the ultimate results
become inconsequential for me that home
has always been writing so after the
weird disorienting success that I went
through with the Pray Love I realized
that all I had to do is exactly the same
thing that I used to have to do all the
time when I was an equally disoriented
failure I did get my ass back to work
and that's what I did and that's how in
2010 I was able to publish the dreaded
follow-up to Eat Pray Love and you know
what happened with that book it bombed
and I was fine actually I kind of felt
bulletproof because I knew that I had
broken the spell and I had found my way
back home to writing for the sheer
devotion of it and I stayed in my home
of writing after that and I wrote
another book that just came out last
year and that one was really beautifully
received which is very nice but not my
point my point is that I'm writing
another one now and I'll write another
book after that and another and another
and another and many of them will fail
and some of them might succeed but I
will always be safe from the random
hurricanes of outcome as long as I never
forget where I rightfully live look I
don't know where you rightfully live but
I know that there's something in this
world that you love more than you love
yourself something worthy by the way so
addiction and infatuation don't count
because we all know that those are not
safe places to live right the only trick
is that you've got to identify the best
worthy esteem that you love most and
then build your house right on top of it
and don't budge from it and if you
should someday somehow get vaulted out
of your home by either great failure or
great success then your job is to
fight your way back to that home the
only way that it has ever been done by
putting your head down and performing
with diligence and devotion and respect
and reverence whatever the task is that
love is calling forth from you next you
just do that and keep doing that again
and again and again and I can absolutely
promise you from long personal
experience in every direction I can
assure you that it's all going to be
okay
thank you